---
layout: post
title: "Effects of 9/11"
tags: [school-essays]
comments: true
author: gareth
---

Sirens blaring and lights flashing as emergency response teams are dispatched all over New York City. That crisp September morning took a horrible turn for the worse. Two planes crashed into the Twin Towers in New York City, a third, as far as the public knows, was crashed into the Pentagon, and a fourth crash-landed into a field in Pennsylvania, although its original target was thought to have been The White House. All in all, nearly 3,000 Americans were killed by Islamic extremists. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 caused huge changes in the psychological health of our nation, the political landscape, the way we handle national security, immigration, and the economy. 

Many mental health institutions point out those traumatic events, such as 9/11, can severely affect the mental health of a population. For example, children are usually hit the hardest by the devastating effects of traumatic events such as terrorism. (Barowsky) The effects of 9/11 badly destroyed our sense of security, especially in the areas around New York City. 

9/11 has also impacted the mentality of students. Students around the country were surveyed and most would rather not work in big cities like New York and Los Angeles. In fact, people who already work in these cities say they feel less secure in the wake of the attack. In fact, even year’s later half of college students are anxious about working in big cities. (Bosco)

These attacks affected not only the mentality of students, but also Children and the overall population as a whole. Terrorism affects are cognitive and interpersonal functioning. (Appel) Traumatic events such as these are especially hard for children. The loss of a parent can be tremendously hard on a child. It is the responsibility of adult to deal with the psychological problems that many children face across this nation because of the heartache that was experienced on September 11.  (Barowsky) 

The United States has never before been so active in the global intelligence community. In the wake of 9/11, the way we handle national security has changed forever. National security formerly was handled in ways that were not as covert.  Because of 9/11, we look at all national security from an intelligence point of view. (Anthony) Previously, there was only a threat if a country or group declared us their targets, but now, with the advent of technology, threats are almost never made publicly against a nation, rather there are plans that we must analyze through the gathering of Human Intelligence.  For example, several agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) have been given more authority and rights than ever before all in the name of national security. It has even got to the point where they won’t let international terrorists testify in court because they fear they might talk about their detainment with the CIA. (Hansen)

Some people have argued that the US brought 9/11 upon itself. They say that it was an intelligence failure. We see that the CIA and even the British Secret Intelligence Service (MI6, aka Military Intelligence, Section 6) received hints and possible plans over electronic communications between Arabs in America and Britain and people who possibly were connected to Al Qaida. Also, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) received information from the CIA to watch out for the possibility of hijacking a national or international flight in an effort to crash land in this country. Obviously, this is a big failure on the fact of both the Intelligence Community and the FAA. (Anthony)

The September 11 attacks also had a huge effect on US bound migration. It halted negotiations with Mexico about giving 2 million undocumented immigrants legal statues. This would have been a huge plus for the Bush Administration, had this gone forward, but, as some in the academic and media circle would argue, the US brought 9/11 upon itself by pushing its own desires. The Bush Administration would not let their immigration deal with Mexico go through unless they got all that they wanted.  In doing so, many believe that they had limited their resources to respond to the possible threats from the CIA. Because the US was taking its own diplomatic agenda very seriously, the administration had little resources to spend towards dealing with an attack this large. Instead, they pushed all the hints under the rug and continued to be out front diplomatically, while ignoring the growing threat of a large scale terrorist attack at home. (Mitchell 29-40)

The effects of 9/11 didn’t just stop at immigration and foreign policy; it affected legal immigration into this country too. It slowed an already slowing rate of immigration into this country. There were many people, particularly from Latin America, who would have settled and benefited our society, but because of the attack, it made it difficult or prevented them from coming to the United States because of the rising cost in transportation, and the delays and high levels of security at our borders. It also dramatically slowed policy changes regarding northward immigration from places like Mexico and the Caribbean. All in all, “the economic and political effects of the September 11 terrorist attacks weakened Latin America and Caribbean economies, reduced employment among Western Hemisphere immigrants living in the United States, and hindered new immigrants’ access to U.S. territory.” (Mitchell 29-40) 

9/11 not only created problems abroad, it caused problems at home. For example, the debt ceiling crisis of 2011 was caused by overspending after 9/11 and fighting two wars in the Middle East. Also, more money was lost because of a growing bureaucracy and the creation of the Department of Homeland Security. (Browning) In fact, about 250 colleges now after graduate degrees related to Homeland security. (Hopkins) If an organization gets bigger, than more resources are needed to keep it going, and the Bush Administration did not fully think that through when they created a whole new department. 

In the wake of 9/11, we experienced a huge economic downturn. On the day of the attack, there was a huge dip in corporate earnings, and the US had negative GDP growth. For the rest of that week, stocks were at record lows and it took a long time to restore a sense of financial security that caused financial markets to begin to grow. This was arguably one of the biggest dips the economy had made since the Great Depression, and the Great Recession we are still recovering from would have probably not been as harsh if we had been more responsible immediately following these events. 

In light of these effects, what do we do? Even though these horrible attacks affected our psychological health, politics, national security, immigration, and economy, we can still have hope towards a bright recovery. We have improved over the last ten years, and we can still improve for the next ten. 
