---
title: '1984 Essay'
layout: post
tags:
  - school-essays
published: false
category: 
---

The picture George Orwell paints of his “modern” society in 1984 is quite a bleak, and frankly, a scary one. It was written just after World War II, so Orwell was probably worried about what could become of the many totalitarian states he had seen rise and fall in the past few years. Some might argue that, while it was a warning to people in the nineteen fifties, those who live in a “free and democratic” society now days have nothing to worry about. Sadly, every day, our world look more and more like the dystopian society presented to us in the book.

In 1984, the Ministry of Truth exists to always make sure that any information is always up to date and makes any prediction by the party correct. “All history was a palimpsest, scraped clean and rein scribed exactly as often as it was necessary.” (Orwell 51) In today’s society, though not all history is completely rewritten, History, news media, and most print is somewhat censored or biased. Whether it be for the sake of political-correctness, or because of biases enforced by or government, we in most cases do not get the full picture of what actually happens in any event. For example, several months ago when MH370 went down, the public still don’t know where it is, but some government officials somewhere know a lot more than any ordinary citizen.

In Air Strip One, throughout the towns and cities, the Tele screens are symbols of the over watching eye of Big Brother and the global connectedness of everything. On page 5, it says, “Behind Winston’s back the voice from the tele screen was still blabbing away about pig iron and the overfulfilment of the Ninth Three-Year Plan. The Tele screen received and transmitted simultaneously. Any sound that Winston made, above the level of a very low whisper, would be picked up by it, moreover, so long as he remained within the field of vision, which the metal plaque commanded, he could be seen as well as heard.” (Orwell)  In many ways, that closely resembles today’s American world. Modern Tele Screens are actually computers, phones, tablets, and the like. With the leaks in recent years of NSA spying, it becomes increasingly clear that the only thing separating Orwell’s Screens from today’s modern computing is the visual spying. The government now sees everything anyone does or sends online, and uses that information to build a complete profile of that person. 

In Oceana, the creation of Newspeak is a shocking parallel to one of the most common forms of communication of our day. In the Appendix describing the fundamentals of Newspeak, it says, “Newspeak was designed not to extend but to DIMINISH the range of though…” (Orwell 377) In our modern times, we have created “texting lingo” that also limits our range of thought to a few very specific ideas. We have shortened words and created new words for use in texting environments that if used in the common conversation severely limit our thought.

George Orwell’s prediction of the future, though not quite right, were note too far off. Many aspects of his dystopian society such as the use of tele screens, the Ministry of Truth, and Newspeak all exist in some form in today’s society. We are moving closer all the time to a society that looks even more grimly similar to this, and we should still take heed of Orwell’s warning.
