---
layout: post
title: "The Beautiful Dangers of Knowledge"
excerpt: "In our every changing society, the deep hunger and quest for knowledge is evident all over."
tags: 
  - "school-essays"
comments: true
published: true
---


In our every changing society, the deep hunger and quest for knowledge is evident all over. From scientists trying to discover life in space to tech companies creating wearable computers, everyone seems to always be searching for more. In her book Frankenstein Mary Shelly warned us through the main character by his words, “Learn from me, if not by my precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of knowledge and how much happier that man is who believes his native town to be the world, then he who aspires to become greater than his nature will allow.” (Shelly 43) Victor warns us that we will have a much happier life is we decide to live peaceably in our own town, not worried about acquiring great knowledge. However, in twenty-first century America, knowledge, and the acquirement of it, is the key to success both individually and for all of society if done correctly and safely.

Victor Frankenstein can warn us to steer clear of advanced knowledge because of his own experience. He was practically clinically insane after spending so much time trying to create the monster, and it only caused him more trouble after he did. The problem with Victor’s sweeping generalization is the fact that he ignores all of the other people who had been acquiring knowledge before him to make any of his work possible. The advancements in Human Anatomy before him allowed him to learn about how the body works so he could use that knowledge in making his own creation. Instead, Victor should warn himself and others that knowledge, when used or acquired incorrectly, can be very dangerous. Victor decided to use his knowledge in an immoral way, and this caused him so much trouble. He could have learned from his predecessors in the medical field that scientific discoveries can cure diseases and improve the quality of life for humanity as a whole. 

Knowledge, and its acquirement, is not only useful for the knowledge itself, but also it allows enhances many processes in the brain. Dr. Daniel Willingham, professor of Cognitive Psychology at the University of Virginia points out that knowledge helps you process new information by freeing up your working memory in order to solve more complex problems. For example, a student who has background knowledge already acquired about the distributive property can easily simplify a problem like a(b+c)but a student who doesn’t have that pre-acquired knowledge would take more time to find the solution. Another example of this happens all the time. When someone reads a passage like "John's face fell as he looked down at his protruding belly. The invitation specified 'black tie' and he hadn't worn his tux since his own wedding, 20 years earlier." (Willingham) if you already have knowledge about how people usually gain weight over twenty years, and you know what a “black tie event” is then you brain will fill in the details. If you gave that passage to a small child however, they might struggle with understanding the meaning of it. (Willingham)

The pursuit of knowledge does not come without dangers. The way that that knowledge is gathered, and the way that it is used can be the difference between helpful knowledge and the craziness that Victor had to go through. One example of dangerous knowledge gathering is embryonic stem cell research. Scientists will fertilize donated eggs in virto or in a glass dish in the lab, and they will study how stem cells develop and allow the fetus to develop in the earliest stages. The moral implications of these studies are huge, and more and more, people are realizing that this research doesn’t actually help reach their ultimate goal of saving people from harmful diseases by using stem cells to restore the infected parts of the body. They are learning that this type of research doesn’t actually further any medical advancements in the field or help them use these stem cells for researching cures for diseases.

Another huge danger in the pursuit of knowledge is how knowledge is used. If it is used incorrectly, it can be very harmful. For example, the atomic bomb, while many of its creators were honored for their discoveries in radioactive elements, their discovery came at great cost. Millions of lives have been lost from the terrible effects of nuclear weapons. While they can be used for good things such as creating energy to power our homes, nuclear fission can also be harnessed to cause serious harm to human life. It is these types of dangers that must be taken into consideration when pursuing knowledge.

Ultimately, the pursuit of knowledge is not inherently evil as Mary Shelley would have us believe, though there can be huge dangers in the way it is collected and how it is used. Knowledge can be very helpful not only in and of itself, but it can improve our mental ability as a whole, but it also can carry huge risks such as nuclear reactions in both nuclear power plants, and in nuclear weapons. The search for knowledge must never be completely abandoned, but anyone who desires knowledge should tread wisely on their quest for the greater good.
