---
title: 'Book Review | When People are Big and God is Small'
layout: post
tags:
  - book-review
category: book-review
---
Ed Welch in this powerful book talks about the prevailing reality of the fear of man in our hearts. He talks about how and why we make other people’s opinions and ideas idols in our hearts, and then devotes the majority of the book to how we overcome that heart idolatry. He lays out the first half of the book with a series of propositions, statements that we often make that highlight our fear of men and how we make that an idol in our lives. The second half deals with how we see ourselves and how we see God and that the ultimate cure for fear of man is to properly fear God.

Very early in the first chapter he makes it clear that the fear of man is a nearly universal issue faced by everyone. He shows how it takes many different forms such as peer-pressure, over-commitment, needs, self-esteem, fear of exposure, second guessing, emptiness, lying, jealousy, anger, depression, avoidance, dieting, comparing to others, and finally, our fear in evangelizing. He systematically points that each one of these thoughts, attitudes, and actions all point to an inward heart that fears man rather than God. I agree that this is a universal struggle all people face to varying degrees throughout their life. 

He begins the first half of the book dealing with the root of this fear and idolatry, shame. I find it interesting that he points to two different kinds of shame, sin-shame and victimization-shame. While both are rooted in sin, one is because of your own sin, the other is because you were sinned against. This is a clear theme throughout scripture that we are naked and laid bare before God and we need a covering for our sin that only God can provide. 

Another reason we fear men is because we fear rejection and pain. This shame and fear needs to be dealt with by confessing sin and having faith in the finished work of Christ, but also trusting in the strong, compassionate deliverance of God. As Isaiah 53 says, “He bore our griefs.”

Through the second half of the book he deals with how we overcome fear of men, by growing in the fear of the Lord. He includes a helpful diagram to show the spectrum of what it means to fear the Lord, including terror, dred, trembling, astonishment, awe, reverence, devotion, trust, and finally, worship. We need to continue to grow in the fear of the Lord by growing in our knowledge of God’s justice and love and by drawing near to Him in submission. Then we will be led to worship Him and Him alone. Growing in the fear of the Lord means to learn more of His holiness. The longest speech given by God in at the end of Job, there we see declarations of God’s greatness and man’s smallness. It would do us good to meditate on our great and awesome sovereign and glorious God and our small and insignificant place as mere creatures.

Welch then takes a couple chapters to deal with the popular view of man that he has psychological needs that need to be met. This view is common in Christian circles just as it is in the world, and at the surface, it seems to fit our lives (e.g. marriage appears to be two people meeting each other’s needs). Actually, Welch shows that this view makes our perceived needs into idols. A Biblical understanding says that we have physical needs of food, water, and shelter which God promises to provide. Beyond that, our only need is to glorify God. We are created to love, to obey, to serve, etc. because we are created in God’s image. If we ever had a need for love, it is not that we need someone to pour into us to somehow “fill us up” but rather we need to pour out ourselves into others. Again, putting our “need” for love or belonging or anything else into the status of “need” makes that an idol that we worship rather than God.

In actuality, we have three needs, we have physical needs for food, water and shelter, we have spiritual needs for forgiveness and to be made right with God, and we have needs to glorify God in using our gifts to accomplish His purposes. The idea that we are a cup that needs to be filled is destroyed and instead we are in need of the righteousness of Christ to forgive our sins and make us right with God, then we need to fulfill our purpose as image-bearers of God.

Finally, how we are to relate to other people. In last couple chapters, Welch talk about how we are to relate to others. We need to love others in response and obedience to the love of Christ. This applies to both our enemies and our neighbors. Further, we are to grow in unity as the Church, as the family of God. We should seek to serve the church and build up one another and edify believers. We need to confess and repent when we sin and cause disunity. We need community, and not just community, but Biblical Community that sees God and God’s glory as the ultimate purpose and seeks to honor Him.
